What drives you? Whether it's knowing the work you do makes a difference, having a great work/life balance, working on exciting and challenging projects, leading innovation and championing change or simply working with a great group of people who are committed to professionalism. At the Virginia Department of Transportation, we have something for you.

The Virginia Department of Transportation (VDOT) is currently searching for students to join our Engineering Internship Program in multiple areas and locations throughout the state. VDOT’s Internship Program gives Interns exposure to the diverse types of work the Department performs and prepares them for a future career in transportation. This program also gives Interns hands-on job assignments and the opportunity to work closely with a diverse group of professionals, with structured training opportunities that align with VDOTs current and projected workforce needs.

SUMMER WORK EXPERIENCE
Interns spend the summer working on unique projects and activities. In addition, interns will have the opportunity to network with other interns.

VDOT is seeking students majoring in Civil Engineering, Civil Engineering Technology, Materials Engineering or related engineering discipline with a focus or concentration in transportation to work in areas such as Traffic Engineering, Construction, Materials, Structure and Bridge, Environmental, Residency Operations, Location and Design, and Maintenance. We are seeking candidates with strong analytical skills, interpersonal and presentation skills, customer service, time management and organizational skills.

THE LOCATION
The Hampton Roads District is comprised of nine counties, 11 cities, and two islands, with roughly 10,000 lane miles. Together, these cover 4,125 square miles of the Southeastern and Eastern Shore areas of Virginia and is home to 1.8 million people.

Counties: Accomack, Isle of Wight, James City, Northampton, Southampton, Surry, Sussex, York and Greensville
Cities: Chesapeake, Emporia, Franklin, Hampton, Newport News, Norfolk, Poquoson, Portsmouth, Suffolk, Virginia Beach and Williamsburg (Cities in Hampton Roads maintain their own roads)

Towns: Accomac, Belle Haven, Bloxom, Boykins, Branchville, Cape Charles, Capron, Cheriton, Chincoteague, Claremont, Courtland, Dendron, Eastville, Exmore, Hallwood, Ivor, Jarratt, Keller, Melfa, Nassawadox, Newsoms, Onancock, Onley, Painter, Parksley, Saxis, Smithfield*, Stony Creek, Surry, Tangier, Wachapreague, Wakefield, Waverly and Windsor (*Smithfield maintains its own roads)

Visit http://www.virginiadot.org/about/districts for more information about the locations available.

The posted hiring range applies to both undergraduate and graduate candidates.

Minimum Qualifications

Must be at least 18 years of age by the start of employment.
As of May 2025, be a rising sophomore (2nd year), junior (3rd year) or senior (4th year) enrolled in undergraduate study in a two-year or four-year college/university.
Graduate students are eligible to apply.
Second year or transferring Community College students may apply.
Complete a minimum of 12 credit hours per semester for undergraduate students and 9 credit hours per semester for graduate students. Students must be enrolled full-time at the time of application.
Have basic knowledge of engineering principles.
 
Additional Considerations

Successful candidates will have demonstrated academic excellence in their major program and be motivated, customer focused and action-oriented individuals with a drive for learning on the job and achieving results. You will have demonstrated ability to make quality and timely decisions, take initiative, communicate effectively, both orally and in writing, prioritize and organize multiple demands in a continuously changing environment, use a computer and software applications, have a basic knowledge of engineering principles, and can meet established deadlines. Ability to anticipate problems, provide solutions, follow instructions, learn quickly and collaborate with teammates.
 

A combination of training, experience, or education in Engineering, or related field desired.
Ability to work independently and in teams.
Ability to make quality and timely decisions.
Ability to anticipate problems, provide solutions, follow instructions, learn quickly, and collaborate with teammates.
 
Special Requirements

A resume and current unofficial transcript must be submitted via this online application process.
Work assignments may require unrestricted mobility in irregular terrain, work in an outdoor environment, and the ability to lift, bend and stand for long periods of time.
Assignments may include requirements to wear personal protective equipment (hard hat, safety vest, safety boots, etc.) and the ability to work from heights (may include requirements to wear fall protection equipment).
U.S. work authorization required.
Special Instructions

You will be provided a confirmation of receipt when your application and/or résumé is submitted successfully. Please refer to “Your Application” in your account to check the status of your application for this position.

Fingerprint-based background checks, references, work history, and DMV records will be verified prior to employment.
 

Students who are transferring from a community college to a college or university for their junior year (3rd year) should provide their final community college transcript and their letter of acceptance to their new institution as an attachment to their application.
Selected candidates will start their internship in May/June 2025, and work until August 2025.
Based on interest, business need, and available funding, students may have the opportunity to continue working during the academic year.
This is a part-time hourly position – No state benefits will be offered.
Housing and relocation are not provided.
This position is not eligible for telework.